#summary JastEMF's Requirements and its Installation.
#labels Featured

= JastEMF Requirements =

JastEMF requires the _[http://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/ Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF)]_ for _Ecore_ metamodel handling and _[http://www.openarchitectureware.org/ openArchitectureware]_ to execute integration artefacts generating templates. The easiest way to satisfy all requirements of JastEMF is to deploy it as plugin in a ([http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ fresh installed]) Eclipse (Version >= 3.6) modelling distribution.

In detail JastEMF requires at least:
  * Apache Ant version 1.7 or higher
  * Eclipse version 3.6 or higher with installed
   ** EMF SDK version 2.6 or higher (Update site http://download.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/updates/releases/) and
   ** Eclipse Modelling Weaving Engine (including _xTend_ and _xPand_) version 1.0.2 or higher

= Installing JastEMF from Update-Site =

JastEMF provides an Eclipse Update Site:
 * The update-site for JastEMF 0.1.6 (tested with Eclipse 3.6 and 3.7) can be found here: 
  * http://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/jastemf/tags/beta_0.1.6/build/org.jastemf.build/distribution

 * The update-site for JastEMF 0.1.7 (tested with Eclipse 4.2) can be found here: 
  * http://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/jastemf/tags/beta_0.1.7/build/org.jastemf.build/distribution

 * An update-site providing intermediate (potentially instable) builds of the current trunk, that we do from time to time, can be found here: 
  * http://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/jastemf/trunk/build/org.jastemf.build/distribution

= Installing JastEMF Manually =

We highly recommend to use the [#Installing_JastEMF_from_Update-Site Eclipse Update Site]. To install JastEMF manually:
  # Download, install and configure an Eclipse distribibution 
  # Download the most recent _org.jastemf_ plugin JAR from our [http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/jastemf/downloads/list download] section and move it to the eclipse dropins directory (_DIR_/dropins).
  # Optionally download the most recent _org.jastemf.converter_ plugin JAR from our [http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/jastemf/downloads/list download] section and move it to _DIR_/dropins.
  # Run Eclipse and select an arbitrary workspace. Check if all JastEMF ANT tasks have been properly registered to Eclipse by investigating _Preferences => Ant => Runtime =>_ Tab _Tasks_. You should find the `jastemf` task and, if you installed the converter, the `jastemf.ecore2ast` and `jastemf.ecore2jrag` tasks.

= Quickstart with the SIPLE Example =

A good starting point for learning how to use JastEMF is to investigate the [Examples SIPLE example] (Simple Imperative Programming Language Example). To build and run it you first need to install JastEMF as described above. Afterwards, SIPLE can be checked out from JastEMF's SVN repository under _"jastemf-examples/calculator"_. For further instructions consult the [Examples example web page].

= Troubleshooting =

If you cannot find the Ant tasks, make sure you installed the correct Eclipse version and distribution and that you do not have an out-dated or multiple Ant version(s) installed. If everything seems right, try starting Eclipse with the `-clean` commandline option. If this still does not work, please report us your issue with detailed information.