#summary Scientific Publications, Presentations and Demonstrations related to JastEMF and Attribute Grammars for Metamodel Semantics.
#labels Featured

= Presentations =

  # Sven Karol, _Towards Well-formed Fragment Composition with Reference Attribute Grammars_, 15th ACM SIGSOFT symposium on Component Based Software Engineering (CBSE 2012), 26.06.2012, Bertinoro, Italy, [https://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/jastemf/wiki/publications/Presentation_CBSE_2012.pdf pdf]
  # Christoff Bürger and Sven Karol, _Reference Attribute Grammars for Metamodel Semantics_, 3rd International Conference on Software Language Engineering (SLE 2010), 12.10.2010, Eindhoven, Netherlands [https://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/jastemf/wiki/publications/Presentation_SLE_12_10_2010.pdf pdf]
  # Christoff Bürger, _Applying Attribute Grammars for Metamodel Semantics_, International Workshop on  Formalization of Modeling Languages (FML 2010), 21.06.2010, Maribor, Slovenia [https://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/jastemf/wiki/publications/Presentation_FML_21_06_2010.pdf pdf]

= Publications =

  # Sven Karol, Christoff Bürger, und Uwe Aßmann. 2012. _Towards Well-formed Fragment Composition with Reference Attribute Grammars_. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGSOFT symposium on Component Based Software Engineering, 109–114. CBSE  ’12. New York, NY, USA: ACM. doi:10.1145/2304736.2304755. [http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2304736.2304755 Web (ACM Digital Library)]
  # Heidenreich, F., J. Johannes, S. Karol, M. Seifert, und C. Wende. „Model-based Language Engineering with EMFText.“ Proceedings of GTTSE 2011.
  # Aßmann, Uwe, Andreas Bartho, Christoff Bürger, Sebastian Cech, Birgit Demuth, Florian Heidenreich, Jendrik Johannes, u. a. 2012. „DropsBox: the Dresden Open Software Toolbox“. Software & Systems Modeling: 1–37. doi:10.1007/s10270-012-0284-6. [http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10270-012-0284-6 Web (Springer Link)]
  # Christoff Bürger and Sven Karol and Christian Wende and Uwe Aßmann, _Reference Attribute Grammars for Metamodel Semantics_, Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Software Language Engineering, Springer 2010, Lecture Notes in Computer Science Vol. 6563, ISBN 978-3-642-19439-9, [http://www.springer.com/computer/swe/book/978-3-642-19439-9?changeHeader Web (Proceedings)] [http://www.springerlink.com/content/d87547q744673r20/ Web (Springer Link)] [http://st.inf.tu-dresden.de/files/publications/Archived_Preprint_SLE_12_10_2010.pdf pdf (Authors version)]
  # Christoff Bürger and Sven Karol and Christian Wende, _Applying Attribute Grammars for Metamodel Semantics_, Proceedings of the International Workshop on Formalization of Modeling Languages, ACM 2010, ISBN 978-1-4503-0532-7   , [http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1943397.1943398 Web (ACM Digital Library)]
  # Christoff Bürger and Sven Karol, _Towards_ _Attribute_ _Grammars_ _for_ _Metamodel_ _Semantics_, Technical Report TUD-FI10-03, March 2010, Technische Universität Dresden, ISSN 1430-211X [http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:bsz:14-qucosa-71807 Qucosa (Open access publication service)]