= Basic Requirements for using JastEMF =
The easiest way to resolve all requirements of JastEMF is just downloading and installing a fresh Eclipse 3.5 modelling distribution from http://www.eclipse.org.

If you want to use JastEMF in an exisiting Eclipse installation your distribution's version should be at least 3.5 . The following plugins need to be installed:
  * Eclipse Modelling Framework >= 2.5
  * Modelling Weaving Engine (including languages xTend and xPand) >= 0.7.2 
  * Apache Ant 

= Installing JastEMF =

  # Download and install Eclipse 3.5 Modelling distribibution to an arbitrary directory _DIR_ with write access.  
  # Download the most recent _org.jastemf_ plugin JAR from this webpage's [http://code.google.com/p/jastemf/downloads/list download] section and move it to the eclipse dropins directory (_DIR_/dropins).
  # Optionally download the most recent _org.jastemf.converter_ plugin JAR from this webpage's [http://code.google.com/p/jastemf/downloads/list download] section and move it to _DIR_/dropins.
  # Run Eclipse and select an arbitrary workspace. Check if all JastEMF ANT tasks have been properly registered to Eclipse by investigating *Preferences* -> *Ant* -> *Runtime* -> Tab *Tasks*. You should find the _jastemf_ task and, if you installed the converter, the _jastemf.ecore2ast_ and _jastemf.ecore2jrag_ tasks.

= Quickstart with SIPLE (Simple Imperative Programming Language Example) =

The SIPLE example demontrates how JastEMF can be used in different configurations and is a good starting point for learning how to use JastEMF. To run the example you need to first install JastEMF. Afterwards, the SIPLE example can be downloaded from this webpage's download section. To install the project in your workspace, select *File* -> *Import...* -> *Import Projects* and choose the downloaded ZIP file as import source. Further instructions and more detail on SIPLE can be found in the project's _readme.txt_.

= Troubleshooting =

If you cannot find the Ant tasks, make sure that you installed the correct Eclipse version and distribution and that you do not have an out-dated or multiple Ant version(s) installed. If everything seems right, try starting Eclipse with the -clean commandline option. If this still does not work, please report your issue with detailled information to us.    